# COVID-19-Tableau-Project
Contributions:

https://www.linkedin.com/in/informaticiandave/

https://www.linkedin.com/in/maaz-farooqi-b22176133/

https://www.linkedin.com/in/tasfin-noisik-173211198/

https://www.linkedin.com/in/oladayo-olatubosun-9065b4141/

Summary Report

In this project, the end user Dr. Smith, who is an infectious disease doctor, wants us to detect fatality-prone illnesses. COVID-19 comorbidities can be lethal, but not always [1]. COVID-19 could kill persons with treatable conditions [1]. Comorbidities assist us identify illness risk in some people, but they don't cause death [2]. Coronaviruses can induce or aggravate deadly respiratory illnesses [1]. Death certificates may target COVID-19 urban and rural residents. The customer wants us to use a CDC dataset for health and safety marketing. COVID-19 deaths by age and area. This project advocates for health. COVID-19 could replace the flu vaccine [3]. Vaccination and infection-induced immunity can prevent epidemics [3]. CDC provided our three datasets: [4-6] (last accessed 6/20/2022). From those datasets Dr. Smith wants to see the role of demographics, underlying clinical conditions, and governmental policies during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Our first visualization is the Ethnic Distribution of COVID-19 Deaths. This area chart illustrates the distribution of COVID-19 deaths among the major ethnic groups. For the purposes of this study, the major ethnic groups were taken into consideration, while the minor groups were categorized together (Other). According to the findings of the analysis, the Hispanic population has the highest rate of COVID19-related deaths. On the other hand, the White population has the lowest rate. Our second visualization is the Age Distribution of COVID-19 Deaths. The age group of 0 to 24 years old has the highest COVID-19 death toll, with an annual average of more than 160,000 deaths; the age group of 25 to 34 years old has the second highest COVID-19 death toll, with an annual average of almost 140,000 deaths. On the other hand, the average for people whose ages range from 35 to 85 and over is nearly identical; it's somewhere in the 70,000s.

In the second visualization our dashboard describes the data in a complex format. The functionality in Tableau allows for a “run the table” method when analyzing data such as the total death rate during a specific time frame during the COVID-19 pandemic. We want to be able to show the user how a running total might help to identify an inverse trend as to how the number of vaccinations increases in connection to what happens to the death rate. It is evident that as the number of individuals receiving a vaccine rose the number of deaths did not or remain between the 2020 to 2021 calendar year. This aligns with the public health initiative from every State and is subsidized by the CDC and our Federal Government to promote the vaccine. The running total report summarily aggregates the data as the table is advanced down the rows over the entirety of the table. The quick calculation allows for various aggregation techniques by manual entry. To confirm a correct running sum the grand total and death sum field can be evaluated to corroborate the data. 

Our third visualization is the Underlying Morbidity Risks Contributing to COVID-19. The United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) all agree with healthcare professionals that the ability of the virus to negatively affect the function of the human heart and lungs on a cellular level poses the greatest threat to the human body [7]. According to the data presented in the preceding graphic, diseases of the cardiovascular system and the respiratory system pose the greatest risk of morbidity. Our fourth visualization is the Comparative Running Totals of COVID-19 Deaths vs Vaccinations. The increment in gap between VACCINATIONS vs COVID-19 DEATHS bins provides an explanation for an INVERSE RELATIONSHIP: as a relatively greater number of people got vaccinated against COVID-19 over time, the number of deaths from the disease decreased.

Our fifth and final visualization for the user is the Relationship of COVID-19 Deaths and Face-Mask Mandates by States. A comprehensive comparison of the COVID-19 mortality rate in each county with the government's face-mask mandate reveals that wearing a face-mask in public is not an effective measure for preventing the spread of diseases that are harmful to public health. The states of Texas and Florida have the highest COVID-19 mortality rates, despite the fact that their state governments have passed laws requiring residents to wear face masks. Despite the fact that the state government of Nebraska does not require the use of face masks, Nebraska is one of the states that has one of the lowest COVID-19 mortality rates.

Overall, our group focused on mask mandates and vaccination rates to visibly connect the substantial changes to the national morbidity and mortality rate. This project's focus on datasets that helped Dr. Smith makes sense of the large datasets by splitting down the most to least affected ethnic groups. Also under evaluation is how dynamic and unknown public health advocacy was compared to the death toll. The virus seemed to grasp life, and the health care community couldn't agree on how to curb or avoid COVID-19's wide variety of health issues.
